In this module, we had a thorough look at authentication. You learned how to send login and sign up requests
and how authentication in general works with that token and so on.
You learned how to manage that token and managing that token also involved
that you find a way to pass that AuthData onto other providers which the provider package makes really
simple with the ProxyProvider approach here.
We use that not only to get the token which you then need to attach to your requests to get access but
we also use that to forward the userId, to filter by userId or to for example, store our favorites
by userId.
In addition, we had a thorough look at managing the session of our user, the lifetime of our user with
auto logout and our timer in there and also of course, with our auto login which tries to log the user in.
In the main.dart file, we made sure that we show different screens based on the authentication status
and with that, you hopefully got a collection of tools that help you build the user experience you want
to build in your next app.
Now one important note here at the end, if you plan on using Firebase, you can simplify a lot of that
by using the official Firebase SDK for Flutter, that will do all of the heavy lifting of managing the
token and so on behind the scenes.
I didn't do that here because obviously you might be building an app that doesn't use Firebase and I
still want to teach you something useful in that case,
so here's the full behind the scenes flow as you could implement it with any back-end.